# LuisTiongco.github.io
<h2>1.) How you accomplished each item in the criteria except for README file discussion</h2>
a.) Application of Concepts Taught<br>
- Using HTML tags were not that difficult to me because I understand how they work and how they are used. The main challenge for me in using HTML tags is making them work with the CSS designs that I have in mind. Because I tend to make the HTML code first before its corresponding CSS design, sometimes, the design that I have in mind could not work with my HTML format at that time, so I had to ditch those ideas and use different styles.<br><br>
- I fully understood the usage of selectors in this activity. I learned when to use ID's and Classes and how important it is to give proper elements of the website proper naming, and in specifying which HTML tag I needed to use for the styles (e.g. nav a/nav li etc.)<br><br>
- For styles, to be honest even after doing the activity, I am still having quite a hard time remembering the syntax and the things that I can do to the elements. I keep finding myself always referring and asking the internet for the design that I want to give my website. And as I said, there are designs that I don't know how to do or cannot be done with how I set up my HTML code so I end up changing styles. <br><br>
- For the usage of flexbox and grid, I understood how to use them too in this activity. I used grid for properly alighning multiple objects within a, well, grid-like structure (my skills section) and using flexbox for everything else. Although I still get confused at times like how when I think of something in mind, and reflect it to my code, they somehow do not match, so either I am wrong in my syntax or that the code that I just input does not give out the result that I have in my head, and it's kind of confusing me still. <br><br>
- For the usage of media queries, sadly I did not have enough time and learnings to apply it to my website. I tried tinkering around to maybe try and fix my website, but in mobile view, my website is too messed up to try and do simple fixes. Although I did understand the topic about media queries when we did them in school, but when it's time to do it on my website, I was having a hard time. <br><br>
- For the animations, I added them last because I wanted to focus on finishing the looks before adding the animations. As much as I am satisfied with the animations that I have on my website, I also ran into the same problem as with CSS styles, where the animation that I have in mind cannot be done easily without altering too much of the code because of how my HTML code is done, so I ended up ditching the ideas (Specifically, I wanted to make my projects a flipcard kind where when you click on them, the back side reveals the picture of that project, but also another problem is that I do not know where to get pictures of those projects because they were done a long time ago).<br><br>
b.) Design <br>
- For the design, I wanted to give it a retro kind of theme, which is the reason why I chose those kind of green-shade colors for my palette. And because I wanted to give it a retro theme, I thought of making it semi pokemon theme as well by using pictures of pokemon. For the layout of the website, I did not really have one in mind so I kind of just went with the flow of how it will go on the website as I continue coding, and only thinking of simple layout (because honestly, I'm not really that creative of a person sadly...)<br><br>
c.) Content<br>
-For the content of my website, I just followed the content of the tutorials and from what my classmates did to theirs. Because at first, I wanted to ditch the project because I didn't think that I had anything to put there (This was before I thought of putting in the activities/MP that we did in school). And originally, the website supposed to have the Home section, the Skils section, the Interests section and the Achievement section. And as seen from the final product, I removed interests and achievements. I removed interests mainly because I just thought of making a simple About section like how my classmates did, and I removed achievements because I did not really know what to put there either. And as for contacts, it was originally supposed to be placed on top in the Home section, but because all websites have their contacts at the end, so I decided to do the same as well.<br><br>
d.) Creativity<br>
- I think that this would be the same as the points that I have said in the design, because honeslty I don't think that I may hav done anything quite creative in my website? Because I didn't really know how to make it more aesthetically pleasing and I was scared of ruining the layout.<br>
<h2>2.) Insights that you have gathered while accomplishing LT0, LT1, and M1M2 (Guided Exercise 1)</h2>
- For my insights, I learned that HTML and CSS goes hand in hand, HTML works with how the layout of the website looks while CSS delves more into the specific design and style of these elements that was placed by HTML. And when making my website, I realized that as easy as it is to actually design one on an editing website/software (like canva), actually making it in code is way more difficult, because everything has to be manually done with just typing rather than specifically and accurately putting them where you want them to go. And thought I had some fun doing it, manually declaring the size, position, etc. of the elements and moving them little by little just to get the perfect place. The topic was kind of hard for me at first and upto this point because this is the first time that I have actually tried doing it, and making a website of my own. But I hope that in future activities, I get the hang of it from my experience in making my own personal website.<br>


<h2>3.) Struggles that you have encountered while accomplishing LT0, LT1, and M1M2 (Guided Exercise 1)</h2>
- As for struggles, I found a lot. As I have previously mentioned, most of the time, I cannot reflect the ideas that I have in mind onto my code. It's easy to think of how to design and put the elements on the website but actually manually organizing them was really hard. Although I did mention that it was kind of fun and satisfying for me, I won't deny that it can actually be really annoying. And the main problem that I have in making my website, was that I got ahead of myself. I did not fully watch the videos that were given and tried to do things on my own. I would watch the videos just to know how to start, but eventually experiment on my own without watching more of the video. This came to bit me when I knew that my classmates copied the tutorials first before personalizing it, and so I realized that I should have done the same. I should have copied the tutorial to get the hang of the website and just alter it to be personalized after it was made. I feel like if I did this the process wouldn't be as hard as it had to be. But now I know that in the future, I should take it slow and not rush things. I should understand these things first and follow the guide/tutorials given rather than going off and thinking that I can do it. And for the time of making it, I should have started immediately when it was given. Not that I started late, but I started midway and my progress was not that great.

<h2>4.) How you could improve your website in the future</h2>
- The website could probably be improved by giving it more design, because even though I am satisfied with its simplicity, I think it may be too simple. I do know that simplistic designs exist and they can be aesthetically pleasing but, I think that my website does not fall under that category. So maybe adding more design/animations could make it better. And the main flaw that my website has, is that it is not responsive. I was editing the website on my laptop that had a 1920 x 1080 resolution and is scaled to 125%, so the website will only be perfeclty shown under those circumstances. So maybe in the future, media queries can be implemented that would make the website usable in mobile devices. 


<h2>5.) Other thoughts that might be noteworthy</h2>
- I believe that I have said most if not all of my thoughts on my answers above. All in all I really enjoyed this learning task even though it was hard and I still came in short with the requirements, and I wish to learn more in the future, may it be how to make the website more aesthetically pleasing, or being efficient and knowing how to code these designs/styles.